ndig help, version 1.0
last updated 23 November 2015

1) Where am I?

You've connected to _ndig_, a chat server loosely based on the old Haven
software originally written by Chris Eleveld (aka The Insane Hermit) at Purdue
University in 1991. As of this writing, a good summary of havens can be found at
http://www.rootaction.net/~jillian/haven/haven/text/havenfaq.txt.

2) What can I do?

You can chat with other online users.

3) Okay, how do I chat?

It's pretty simple. By default, any text you type will be sent to every user who
is in the same room as you as soon as you hit return. If you send "hello,
world!" it will appear to other users (and yourself) like this:

  (3, guest53613) hello, world!

4) "guest53613"? That's gross.

Yes, the default usernames are designed to make you want to change them. To
change your name, you'll send a _command_. There are several available
chat-related commands, all of which start with a dot. For example, the command
to change your username is ".name", which can be abbreviated to ".n" if you're
in a hurry. It works like this:

  .name Gonzo the Magnificent
  > Name changed.

Now, if you send "I am magnificent!", you and others in your room will see:

  (3, Gonzo the Magnificent) I am magnificent!

You cannot use the same name as another logged-in user.

5) What's the "3" for?

When you first connected, you were assigned a _line number_. Line numbers start
at 0 (reserved for the server admin) and go up to 60, and each user gets a
different one. They are used in some _commands_ to quickly identify a user. For
example, if someone on line 14 is bothering you, you can _gag_ them by sending
the command ".gag 14" (or ".g14" for short), after which you will not receive
any messages sent by the user on that line.

You cannot change your line number while you're logged in, but if you log out
and log back in, your line number might change. You can also use line numbers as
a rough estimate of how long someone has been online, since they're always
assigned lowest-number-first (but see the .who and .whois commands for detailed
info).

6) How can I tell what room I'm in?

Well, it's pretty easy, because right now there is only one room, called Home.
Therefore you are in it.

7) Got it. What other commands are there?

Here's the list. Note that all commands may be abbreviated, so long as the
abbreviation is unambiguous. So ".hu" will work for ".hush", but ".h" won't work
because I don't know if you want ".hush" or ".help".

  Chat Commands

  .gag <n>          Suppress all messages from line number n.
  .yell <msg>       Send <msg> to all users on the system who are not hushed,
                    regardless of the room they're in.
  .hush             Suppress yells. If you are hushed, you also cannot yell.
  .page <n> <msg>   Send <msg> to the user on line number n.
  :<message>        Send a special "emote" chat message. Also known as posing.
                    For example ":smiles" will appear as "(3) Alex smiles"

  Info Commands

  .look             Show the name and description of the room you're in.
  .who              Show a list of all users on the system.
  .whois <n>        Show detailed information about the user on line number n.
  .name <newname>   Change your name to <newname>.
  .help             Show this help.
  .?                Show a description of available commands.

8) Sometimes I get a message while I'm typing and the text breaks up across
lines in funny ways.

You're probably using telnet to connect. You might find that you prefer
dedicated client software like Ken Keys' TinyFugue, which keeps the input and
output buffers separate. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TinyFugue.
